WEDNESDAY: requirements day

am1 & am2: 1hr on introduction, aims and practices for the meeting,
including assigning responsibilities for note taking etc. Nick will
then spend the remainder of the time presenting the details of the
year 3 playmate system. This will give a decent overview of planning
and binding, and some typical "design patterns" in CAST.


pm1 & pm2: 2 parallel sessions (expl. & playmate) on scenarios and
requirements. The existing scripts should be worked through, and the
groups should produce documents describing what is happening "behind
the scenes" (at the level of activity within and between
subarchitectures) for each line/scene/interaction. This should be
closely linked to the specifications already written (no time to start
afresh now!). The aims of these sessions are to extract the
requirements and behaviours of the main subsystems in the
demonstrators.

We suggest that the process for these sessions is that you work
through the the scenarios a number of times work at increasing levels
of detail. We suggest

- script level: confirm that the script(s) are detailed enough,
  including all important behaviours and interactions. This may
  require the script to be expanded to include previously ignored
  internal behaviours.

- subarchitecture level: for each line in the script determine what
  should be on working memory

- dependency level: for each entry in working memory determine what
  information is required to produce that information, ideally working
  back to sensor data.

- component level: as far as possible, and given existing components,
  determine the components and interactions required to produce this
  information.

- responsibility level: assign people to be responsible the
  identifiable parts of the system. This responsibility can be to
  ensure they get discussed futher or to specify or develop them.

It is crucial that you get to the end of the scenario at least once.

We will provide simple electronic templates that should be used to
note down this information as the meeting progresses.

pm3: The two groups combine, present their analyses, and we produce a
document combining the requirements. This will all be done with
reference to the specifications produced previously. At this point it
should be possible to say (at a high-level at least, not necessarily
components) what information/functionality is missing. For missing
bits we must then specify who is going to produce it.




THURSDAY: representing the world


am1: Plenary recapping requirements by subarchitecture. Each
subarchitecture will be presented by a "leader" who will be
responsible for coordinating subarchitecture development. This can be
shortened/removed if required.


For each of the subsequent sessions designing system functionality it
is important that the outcome is a concrete document describing this
functionality at a high level, and then at a lower level including
subarchitectures, components and IDL structs.


am2 & pm1: 2 parallel sessions designing parts of the systems: vision
(how do we pull together the work of 4 sites!); and spatial cognition
(mapping + spatial wm).

pm2: 2 parallel sessions designing systems that operate on some of the
representations: motivation, planning, & execution (high-level
behaviour generation and control); and learning and recognition (or
maybe more vision if required!).


pm3: Pull together results of sessions, modify requirements where
appropriate, make sure it's all written down. In this session it's
important to check that we're not inadvertantly requiring extra
functionality that isn't available. Nothing should be implicit.


FRIDAY:	acting internally and externally

am1 & am2: 2 parallel sessions on generating behaviour: clarification,
binding and triggering components; and using effectors (arms, wheels,
pan-tilt units) via the robot layer and representing behaviours that
access this functionality. Any other business too.

pm1 & pm2: plenary putting the pieces back together again: recreate
the Wedensday pm3 session going through the scenarios, filling the
gaps, putting in details where we can, and finalising documents and
plans. These are the last sessions on system design.

pm3: software engineering: overview of the processes we are going to
use (and enforce) during the development period.

