/*! 
\page bvs Visual Action Learning and Testing Scenarios (Bham)

\section introduction Introduction 

Before the demo we could record movies of the robot learning about shape,
colour and projective relations using the objects to be used in the
demonstration.

The objects to be used in the demonstration are:

Part 1: a red triangle, a blue triangle, a blue square, and a red square, a
blue flag and a red flag

Part 2: a car, and a second object (perhaps a phone)


\section scripts Scripts

\subsection Part 1: Script

The human sits next to the robot. There are two flags as landmarks
either side of the table in front of the robot. A red one is on the
left. A blue one is on the right.

H: This is the shape game.
R: OK.

The human puts a red triangle in front of the robot. He retracts his
arm, and then reaches out, grasps the triangle, and picks it up, or
pushes it to the left flag.

H: In the shape game triangles go near to the left flag.
R: OK.

The human puts a red square in front of the robot.

H: This is the shape game.
R: OK.

The human moves the red square to the right flag.

H: In the shape game squares go next to the right flag.
R: OK.

The human puts a blue triangle in front of the robot.

H: This is the shape game.
R: OK.

H: Where should the blue triangle go?
R: It should go next to the left flag.

The human moves the blue triangle to the left flag.
The human puts the blue square in front of the robot.

H: This is the shape game.
R: OK.

H: Where does the blue square go?
R: It should go next to the right flag.

The human moves the blue square to the right flag.

The human puts the red square in front of the robot.

H: Play the shape game.

The robot picks up the shape and puts it next to the right flag.

Human puts the blue triangle in front of the robot.

H: Play the colour game.

The robot picks up the shape and puts it next to the blue flag.

This part requires some assumptions:

\li The robot may not be able to learn the rules of the game using
statistical methods from such a small sample. This will require that
either we do the learning off-line, or that we constrain the learning
to assume deterministic rules of the game.

\li The offline learning of the rules of the game may be performed
using labeled sequences with clearly defined beginnings and ends.

\li The picking up of the object will require the use of the planning
for vision. This involves many steps, which are not apparent in the
script.


\subsection Part 1: Script

The human shows the robot a car.

H: This is a car.

The human turns the car in front of the robot.

The human puts the car behind the wall.

H: Where is the car?

R: Behind the wall.

H: What is behind the wall?

The robot moves its arm camera to look behind the wall.

R: I see a car and a blue thing.

R: What is the blue thing?

H: It is a ball.

This also requires some assumptions:

\li When learning appearance from multiple views, if this is done
on-line it requires movement of the object, but our system is not able
to cope with movement of the object while performing (let alone
learning) recognition.

\li The robot can ask a clarification question here, but it is not
pertinent to the task.

\li The wall needs to be programmed into the robot~Rs model of the
world a priori, since we do not want to have to recognise it.


*/